Ezra 7:10—that’s the scripture we’re discussing.
Ezra “prepared his heart”
so he could teach the regulations of Jehovah God.
Well, how does that happen?
Well, he did so through prayer,
through his own meditation,
through his personal study,
and through observing other faithful
and loyal servants of Jehovah God.
Well, this is the very same process
that we use
in order to teach at a Bible study.
I’d like to, though, at this time,
see how we can apply
Ezra’s words and example
when offering public prayers.
Now, at times we’re privileged
to offer a prayer
maybe here at Bethel,
in the congregation, at shepherding calls.
Those are given by brothers.
But, you know,
there is another form of public prayer
often offered by sisters,
and it’s the prayer with a Bible student.
Now, for a moment, consider the prayers
that a Bible student may be familiar with.
He probably
never heard the name Jehovah in a prayer.
Probably, he’s heard
some renderings of the Our Father prayer
or has heard a minister
read a prayer from a prayer book.
But how different now
the prayers are going to be
from the teacher
and those that may accompany the teacher!
Really, our prayers reflect
our own relationship with Jehovah God
that we have developed over time.
Our prayers are influenced
not only by our past experience in life
but also by observing
other loyal servants of Jehovah God
and listening to their prayers as well.
Let’s see how that was the case with Ezra.
Now, the Insight  book says that Ezra lived
during “the time of Mordecai and Esther”
when the decree went out for the king
“to exterminate the Jews
throughout the Persian Empire.”
Now, “there were many Jews
[that were] living in Babylon,
“so this national crisis
[had] an indelible imprint on Ezra,”
strengthening his faith in Jehovah God
—that He would deliver his people.
As a result,
Ezra witnessed
the reaction of the people to this.
If you turn to Esther
—Esther 4:3—
listen to what’s recorded:
“And in every province where the king’s word
and his decree reached,
“there was great mourning among the Jews,
“along with fasting and weeping and wailing.
Many were lying down in sackcloth and ashes.”
Now, public fasting
was often accompanied
by earnest supplication,
and Ezra would have realized
that Esther was carrying on
this fervent supplication to Jehovah God
at that time as well.
And this all helped
to galvanize Ezra’s faith.
See, he witnessed
how Jehovah delivered his people
in this seemingly impossible situation
and how Jehovah protected his people
from the enemies.
And living through all of that
helped to shape
Ezra’s inclination toward prayer.
See, he learned that prayer is powerful.
And that’s the way
it’s happened to all of us too, hasn’t it?
We’ve all been eyewitnesses
to Jehovah’s loving care for us
and for his people.
And these experiences
have shaped our communications
with Jehovah God.
Now, there is something else
that helped Ezra.
The Insight  book says
that he “was an [untiring] researcher,
“with discernment in deciding
between various readings
of the copies of the Law existing then.”
So imagine the impression
that was made on him
while he was comparing
the different renderings
of the prayers that he was copying
—prayers from Moses,
Hannah, David, and Daniel.
And as a result,
this would have impressed upon him
what kind of prayers
Jehovah wanted to have recorded.
So from his own life experience,
observing the faith of others
and prayers of others,
then he was able to meditate on now:
‘What about God’s regulation
is going to help my audience?
‘And what about His regulations
‘and the experiences of these people
‘can I use in my prayers
in speaking to Jehovah in their behalf?’
And thus, that helped him
to be able to teach the Law
and to pray
to reach the hearts of the listeners.
In preparing to say a prayer
before a large gathering of worshippers,
one brother explains this; he said:
“I consider in advance
what to give thanks for,
“what requests the brothers might have,
“and what petitions
I could mention on their behalf.
“I put my ideas,
including expressions of praise,
“in the right order in my mind.
“Before saying the public prayer,
I say a silent prayer asking for help
to represent the brothers
in a dignified manner.”
Well, the same process is followed
in offering a prayer at a Bible study.
What specific needs does the student have
that we would feel comfortable
addressing Jehovah with in their presence?
Are they struggling with a bad habit?
maybe experiencing ridicule from family
or workmates or schoolmates?
Are the holidays or other celebrations
a challenge for them?
What could we commend them for
before Jehovah God?
Have they taken a stand against holidays
or smoking or immorality?
Or are they speaking to others
about what they’re learning?
What progress are they making?
Now, public prayers
do not have to be long and elaborate
—generally, short and meaningful is best.
Let’s see an example
of when Ezra prayed in behalf of others,
petitioning Jehovah for his guidance.
We can go to Ezra chapter 8
and verses 21 and 23.
It says: “Then I proclaimed a fast there
“at the river Ahava,
“to humble ourselves before our God,
“to seek guidance from him for our journey,
“for us and for our children
and for all our goods.”
And verse 23:
“So we fasted
and made request of our God concerning this,
and he listened to our entreaty.”
No doubt, Ezra recalled the fasting
that accompanied the earnest petitions
of Esther years earlier.
He saw guidance from Jehovah God
in the assignment that he had at hand.
He was traveling
with enormous riches on this occasion
and from a human perspective
was effectively unarmed and defenseless.
So this was a first for him;
he had never been down this road before.
He needed and prayed
for God’s guidance and protection.
Well, the Bible student likewise is beginning
to traverse the ‘cramped road’
mentioned at Matthew 7:14.
And like Ezra, he may feel,
‘I’ve never been down this road before.’
And he needs guidance.
So in our prayers, we might ask Jehovah
to give them more faith
to trust in Jehovah God.
We can specifically ask Jehovah
to empower the student as needed.
Now, a word of caution here:
If we are accompanying someone
on a Bible study
and we’re asked to say one of the prayers,
it’d be good for us to remember
that we don’t have
the teacher-student relationship.
The conductor has that relationship.
So as a guest on the study,
we wouldn’t want our prayers
to become too specific
in connection with the needs of the student.
But our prayers at a Bible study
can really have a powerful,
motivating effect on them.
One pioneer sister in Sierra Leone
conducts 15 Bible studies each week.
And here’s what she said:
“Besides all the prayers offered
“when in the other features of the ministry
and on other occasions,
“I am able to pray to Jehovah 30 times a week
“in behalf of my Bible studies.
“These prayers
seem to have a beneficial effect
and strong influence
on the progress of the students.”
So when we’re praying
in behalf of others publicly,
let us prepare our heart like Ezra
by giving careful thought
to the content of our prayers.
Let’s consider the student’s needs
and how we can articulate that
in our petitions to Jehovah.
Then set the example of humility
by asking Jehovah to help us,
and ask for his forgiveness.
Never underestimate
the far-reaching effects
of our sincere prayers
in behalf of others.
Really, we become
their advocate in our prayers.
And as a Bible student
listens to our prayers,
he will learn how to pray
from his heart to Jehovah God
and he will learn, as did Ezra,
that prayer is powerful.